[RM Ch09] Infrastructure LCM Automation Introduction (#2851)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter09.rst

 - promote evolution from automation understood as automation of human tasks to autonomous systems using intent-based, declarative automation, supported by evolving AI/ML technologies 

Automated LCM uses Inventory Functions to:
  -  store and manage configuration data
  -  store and manage metrics related data such as event data,  alert data, and performance data 
  -  maintain currency of data by teh use of discovery of current versions of software modules
  -  track and account for all systems, assets, subscriptions (monitoring)
  -  provide an inventory of all virtual and physical assets
  -  provide a topological view of interconnected resources
  -  support network design function
  

Automated LCM uses Available Software Versions and Dependencies component to:
 -  store information about available software versions, software patches and dependency expectations
 -  determine the recommended version of a software item (such as firmware) and dependencies on other items in the node to ensure compliance and maintain the system integrity
 -  determine the recommended versions of foundation software running on the cluster

Automated LCM uses Orchestration Engine to:

>  -  take the inputs from Inventory, Available Software Versions, and Dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 -  take the inputs from Repositories, Available Software Versions, and Dependencies
```

Infrastructure LCM Automation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In the typical telecom operator environment, the infrastructure Life Cycle Management has become increasingly complex and error prone, with multiple vendors and products, and high maintenance costs due to the necessary planning, testing and the out-of-business-hours execution required to do frequently disruptive maintenance (e.g., upgrades) and to mitigate outages to mission-critical applications. Consistent process and tooling for infrastructure management across hybrid environments creates additional complexity due to different levels of access to infrastructure with the hands-on access in the on-premise operations and an access restricted to consumable services offered by public clouds.

Reviewer: Some suggested changes.
```suggestion
In a typical telecom operator environment, infrastructure Life Cycle Management is highly complex and error-prone. The environment, with its multiple vendors and products, is maintenance expensive (both time and costs) because of the need for complex planning, testing, and the out-of-business-hours execution required to perform disruptive maintenance (e.g., upgrades) and to mitigate outages to mission-critical applications. Processes and tooling for infrastructure management across hybrid environments create additional complexity due to the different levels of access to infrastructure: hands-on access to the on-premise infrastructure but only restricted access to consumable services offered by public clouds.
```

Reviewer: What is missing and needs to be added is the scope of LCM in on-premise and public clouds.
For example,
On-premise LCM: Infrastructure including BIOS; Host OS (including the kernel) and Tooling; Guest OS and Tooling; Tenant workloads
Public cloud LCM: Prepare for and act on public cloud infrastructure, Host OS and Tooling LCM; Guest OS and Tooling; Tenant workloads

> Life cycle operations, such as software or hardware upgrades (including complex and risky firmware updates), typically involve time-consuming manual research to check whether an upgrade is available, needed, beneficial and not conflicting with the current versions of other components before moving forward.  In a complex and at scale Hybrid Multi-Cloud environment, such a manual process is ineffective and, in many cases, impossible to execute in a controlled manner.  Hence, needs for automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Life cycle operations, such as software or hardware upgrades (including complex and risky firmware updates), typically involve time-consuming manual research and substantive testing to ensure that an upgrade is available, required, or needed, and does not conflict with the current versions of other components.  In a complex and at-scale Hybrid Multi-Cloud environment, consisting of multiple on-premise and public clouds, such a manual process is ineffective and, in many cases, impossible to execute in a controlled manner.  Hence, the need for automation.
```

> The goals of LCM is to provide a reliable administration of a system from its provisioning, through its operational stage, to its final retirement. Key functions of Infrastructure LCM:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goals of LCM are to provide a reliable administration of a system from its provisioning, through its operational stage, to its final retirement. Key functions of Infrastructure LCM:
```

>  -  Hybrid, Multi-Cloud support, that is, LCM works across physical virtual and cloud environments, supporting on-site, cloud and distributed environments (like Edge)

Reviewer: since public clouds also have sites:
```suggestion
 -  Hybrid, Multi-Cloud support, that is, LCM works across physical, virtual, and cloud environments, supporting on-premise, cloud, and distributed environments (like Edge)
```

 -  Complete system life cycle control (Build, Monitor, Maintain, Retire)
 -  Enablement for automation of most system maintenance tasks

Essential foundation blocks for Infrastructure LCM automation:
 -  Inventory
 -  Available Software Upgrades and Dependencies
 -  Orchestration Engine
 -  Representation Model 

Automated LCM uses Inventory to:

>   -  store configuration data, alert data, and performance data dynamically discovered from the infrastructure (environmental data)

Reviewer: the alert and performance data is not typically part of Inventory

Author: It depends on the definition pf course.  But I agree I will develop this topic further to make appropriate distinctions.  Any suggestions will be appreciated as well.

>   -  discover current versions of software modules at each endpoint (discovery)

Reviewer: isn't this part of the configuration data

  -  track and account for all systems, assets, subscriptions (monitoring)

>   -  provide inventory of all asset, logical and physical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  provide an inventory of all virtual and physical assets, 
```

Automated LCM uses Available Software Upgrades and Dependencies component to:
 -  store information about available software upgrades and dependency expectations
 -  determine the recommended version of a software item (such as firmware) and dependencies on other items in the node
 -  determine the recommended versions of foundation software running on the cluster

> 

Reviewer: before applying the upgrades, there needs to be at least an evaluation, if not actual testing, for compatibility and to ensure that things do not break or are likely to break

> Automated LCM uses Orchestration Engine to:

Reviewer: typically this si not a function of the Orchestration engine unless the term is being used here in not the ETSI vocabulary

 -  take the inputs from inventory, available versions, and dependencies

>  -  run the non-disruptive upgrades

Reviewer: what about disruptive upgrades

 -  dynamically remediate dependencies during the upgrade process to optimise outcome

>  -  ensure that the system is consistent across its life cycle

Reviewer: how will orchestration ensure consistency
what does "is" refer to as this about the Orchestration engine

Automated LCM uses Representation Model to:
 - abstract various automation technologies

>  - promote evolution from automation understood as an automation of human tasks to autonomous systems using intend-based, declarative automation, supported by evoving AI/ML technologies 

Reviewer: not sure what "automation understood" means heer
```suggestion
 - promote evolution from automation understood as automation of human tasks to autonomous systems using intent-based, declarative automation, supported by evolving AI/ML technologies 
```
